# JSP directives
The jsp directives are options that tell the web container how to translate a JSP page
into the corresponding servlet.

There are three types of directives:
1. page directive
2. include directive
3. taglib directive

## 1. page directive
Syntax `<%@ page attribute="value" %>  `
### import
`<%@ page import="java.util.Date" %>`
### contentType
The contentType attribute defines the `MIME` (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension) 
type of the HTTP response.  
The default value is `text/html;charset=ISO-8859-1`.
### extends
The `extends` attribute defines the parent class that will be 
inherited by the generated servlet.
### info
This attribute simply sets the information of the JSP page which is retrieved later
by using `getServletInfo()` method of `Servlet` interface.
### buffer
This one sets the buffer size in kilobytes to handle output generated by the JSP page.  
The default size of the buffer is `8Kb`.  
`<%@ page buffer="16kb" %>`
### language
The language attribute specifies the scripting language used in the JSP page.   
The default value is `java`.
### isELIgnored
We can ignore the Expression Language (EL) in jsp by the isELIgnored attribute.   
By default, its value is `false` i.e. Expression Language is enabled by default.  
`<%@ page isELIgnored="true" %>`
### isThreadSafe

Servlet and JSP both are multithreaded.  
If you want to control this behaviour of JSP page, you can use isThreadSafe attribute
of page directive.  
The default value of isThreadSafe value is `true`.   
If you make it `false`, the web container will serialize the multiple requests,
i.e., it will wait until the JSP finishes responding to a request before passing
another request to it.  
`<%@ page isThreadSafe="false" %>`

The web container in such a case will generate the servlet as:
```java
public class SimplePage_jsp extends HttpJspBase 
        implements SingleThreadModel{  
///
}
```
### errorPage
The errorPage attribute is used to define the error page,
if an exception occurs in the current page, it will be redirected to the error page.
`<%@ page errorPage="myerrorpage.jsp" %>`
### isErrorPage
The isErrorPage attribute is used to declare that the current page is the error page.  
Note: The exception object can only be used in the error page.
```jsp
<html>  
<body>  
  
<%@ page isErrorPage="true" %>  
  
 Sorry an exception occured!<br/>  
The exception is: <%= exception %>  
  
</body>  
</html>  
```
## 2. include directive
The include directive is used to include the contents of any resource 
it may be jsp file, html file or text file.   
The include directive includes the original content of the included resource
at page translation time 
(the jsp page is translated only once, so it will be better to include static resource).

```html
<jsp:include page="../components/header.jsp"/>
```

## 3. taglib directive
The JSP taglib directive is used to define a tag library that defines many tags.   
We use the TLD (Tag Library Descriptor) file to define the tags.   
In the custom tag section, we will use this tag, 
so it will be better to learn it in custom tag.  
In this example, we are using our tag named currentDate.   
To use this tag, we must specify the taglib directive 
so the container may get information about the tag.  
```html
<html lang="en">
<body>

<%@ taglib uri="https://www.javatpoint.com/tags" prefix="mytag" %>

<mytag:currentDate/>

</body>
</html>  
```