### What is `JSESSIONID` in `JSP-Servlet`?
- `JSESSIONID` is a cookie generated by Servlet containers like Tomcat or Jetty
and used for session management in the J2EE web application for HTTP protocol.  
Since HTTP is a stateless protocol, there is no way for Web Server to relate
two separate requests coming from the same client.   
- Session management is the process to track webUser sessions using different
session management techniques like Cookies and URL Rewriting.   
- If a Web server is using a cookie for session management, it creates and 
sends `JSESSIONID` cookie to the client and then the client sends 
it back to the server in subsequent HTTP requests.  

### When is `JSESSIONID` created in the Web application?
In J2EE application container is responsible for Session management and by default uses Cookie.   
When a webUser first time access your web application, a session is created based on whether
its accessing HTML, JSP or Servlet.   
If a webUser request is served by `Servlet` then session is created by calling
`request.getSession(true)` method.  
It accepts a boolean parameter which instructs to create session if It's not already existed.
If you call `request.getSession(false)` then it will either return null if no session is 
associated with this webUser or return the associated HttpSession object.   
If `HttpServletRequest` is for JSP page than Container automatically creates 
a new Session with `JSESSIONID` if this feature is not disabled explicitly 
by using page directive `<%@ page session="false" %>`.

Once a Session is created, the Container sends `JSESSIONID` cookie into response to the client.  
In the case of HTML access, no webUser session is created.   
If a client has disabled cookie, then Container uses URL rewriting for managing session 
on which jsessionid is appended into URL as shown below:  
https://localhost:8443/supermart/login.htm;jsessionid=1A530637289A03B07199A44E8D531427

When the HTTP session is invalidated(), mostly when the webUser logged off,
old `JSESSIONID` is destroyed and a new `JSESSIONID` is created when the webUser further login.  

### How to monitor HTTP requests to check `JSESSIONID`?
You can check the value of JSESSIONID coming in as a cookie by monitoring HTTP requests.  
If you are running Tomcat Server in NetBeans IDE in your development environment, 
then you can use HTTP Server Monitor to check HTTP requests.   
You just need to enable it while starting Tomcat Server from Netbeans.

After then with each request, you can see all details of request headers, session, cookies, etc. 
in the HTTP Server monitor screen.   
If you look at `JSESSIONID` cookie, it will look like this:  

`cookie  JSESSIONID=1A530637289A03B07199A44E8D531427`